Book Name: The Magic of Thinking Big  

Chapter 4: ”How to Think Big” 

The chapter mentioned above has taught me that I should always dream big and that there should be no hesitation about keeping dreams large. If I think small, it shows that I am incompetent and lazy. I'll always have big dreams whether I achieve them or not? Regardless, I will do my best to reach them. The fact that I have big dreams means I think about success in my life no matter if there is more competition or not.



 It has been my experience that many people do not think big because they underestimate themselves and lack self-confidence. But I will not do the same. Instead, I will be strong, fearless and think of bigger goals and try my best to achieve them. At the very least, if I fail, I will have the satisfaction that I did my level best to achieve my goal, and I will also be able to analyze and correct my mistakes in order to avoid repeating them. 



What I think in my mind creates positive or negative thoughts and images in my mind. I want to share the understanding that I had about creating thoughts. When I face problems, I used to take problems in a negative way but from now on I will react differently towards them. Instead, I will take it as a challenge and sort it out. A valuable thing I have learned from this chapter is that wherever I go in whichever field there is always high competition. For me, it shouldn't be a reason. I must take it positively and compete with others to achieve success. 



Being able to appreciate my qualities makes me a person with high-level thinking ability. I should praise or acknowledge people for their good work such that there will be a healthy relationship between me and people. I learned this from my parents when there was some work on my farm and there was a need for workers on the farm. When workers were doing their job my parents would provide them with extra facilities like food, tea, coffee, etc. I asked them why you are doing this. My father didn’t reply.  

After some time, I noticed that all the workers did some overtime work without any extra wages and completed the whole work in one day itself. After this, my father told me that if I want to be a successful person in life, I should learn to care for the people around me, thus I will succeed in my life. From that moment I understood that there is always a symbiotic relationship between me and the people around me. 

In order to be successful in my life, I should not be the same person as I was yesterday. I should always be on a path of upgrading myself daily. The first step is that I should understand where I am standing right now in my life then I should talk to myself and understand the qualities I lack. I should try to gain those qualities as much as possible. Thus, by doing this I will develop a capacity to think big throughout my life. 

 

There is nothing wrong with thinking big in life, but it will become wrong if I do not put in the right efforts which are required to achieve in life. Hence, I should plan or map the correct way toward my success. Lastly, I want to conclude by saying that I will be a person to think big in my life and work or plan it accordingly. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 